# Partitioning Weighted Graphs
1. The ProposedAlgorithms.py file contains the implementation of the proposed algorithms for community detection in weighted networks. Among these algorithms is a generalization of Newman's optimal modularity algorithm for weighted graphs, named GeNA. In addition, the file includes the implementation of an algorithm called FUSE, which decreases the number of communities in any partition through sums of inter-community modularity. Conversely, an algorithm named ADD is proposed to increase the number of communities in any partition by using a dissimilarity measure based on the magnitude of the components of the modularity matrix. Using these three algorithms, we present the ReVAM method (Resolution Variation Algorithm by Modularity), which straightforwardly obtains a partition of a weighted graph with a desired number of communities. Finally, the file also contains functions to calculate the level of membership of each node with respect to its community.
2. The ComparisonResolutionAlgorithms.py file presents the performance of ReVAM compared with the Louvain, Combo, Spectral Clustering, and Leiden algorithms.
3. The AlgorithmsApplication.py file presents an application example of the previously described algorithms and functions. This application consists of generating partitions of a network from the state of Guanajuato, constructed through the geographic adjacencies of municipalities and weighted using COVID-19 incidence data.

# How to cite this methodology
The details of the proposed algorithms and their application can be found in the following article:\
**Zúñiga-Macías, R., & Barradas, I. (2026). Which geographical scale best aligns with epidemiological data?. International Journal of Data Science and Analytics, 21(1), 55.**
